---
title: Goodbye
---

Perhaps it’s in our misunderstanding of what goodbye really is.

How many times have we said goodbye to someone we love when they go home at the end of a perfect night? How many times has goodbye meant, “Stay safe. I love you. And I look forward to seeing you again.” In those cases, goodbye is just a transition from now... until then.

In moments of tragedy, however, when pain swells and all hope fails, we say goodbye with such a terminal intent. But are we really saying that to the person who has somehow along the way, brought us joy? What if we say it thinking it’s goodbye to them, but really what we’re saying goodbye to is this? This pain is over. This behavior is over. This acceptance is over. This us is over.

If that’s the case, that person is never truly gone. They are still out there. And from time to time, our hearts and minds may play a note that resonates with those good moments and times. And the music plays in our hearts for a moment, and we remember them, and think to their being. And if in that moment, our belief and understanding of them and the universe says all the tragedy has passed, then perhaps, that is the time to say hello?

I encourage you to consider this premise, and each time that music plays, consider the universe and that hello. Because we are all human, and that existence bears a terminal ending — death. In this line of reasoning even death isn’t a goodbye. But it is a transition that leads to one absolute outcome — there will never be a response. The music may continue to play from time to time for you, but from that point on, you will listen to or sing it alone. Or with others who know the same. But not with the one who helped you make it.

So perhaps, the next time we hear that music, we should consider its truth and responsibility. Is the silence worth it? In the cases where our sense is that more hurt will ensue, I’d say not yet. But if you ever sense that there may be a note or two worth sharing, then maybe we should say...

“Hello friend... do you remember this happy song we used to sing? Well I just started singing it, and I was wondering if you’d like to sing along for a moment.”

Perhaps that song is love. Perhaps there is no goodbye. There are only the songs of our lives. And hello and goodbye are simply just the emotions of whether or not we feel like singing, and who we feel like singing with.

What song will you sing tomorrow? The next day? Next week? Next year? In ten years? Twenty? What song will you sing when your body tells you it is time to sing one last song, before you don’t get to sing with anyone anymore?

Can you still sing? Do you want to? What song do you want to sing? And who do you want to sing it with?

Perhaps when you’re ready, go and sing. Perhaps there is no real goodbye. There are only the songs we have chosen to sing and those we have chosen not to. And those decisions are songs too.

Let your soul sing when it wants to. Whatever and with whoever. Before you can only sing alone. And before you can’t sing at all.

*Written on November 18th, 2019, for one of the Common App essay prompts and to this day remains one of my favorite pieces I've ever written :)*
